open the code bro

okk

this doesnt rank resumes according to colleges right ?

i had an idea
where we can tell the m,odel that iit nit are tier 1 
and vcet are tier 3 

and tell the model to rank according to college too 
is taht possible 

yes thats a good idea and thats possible 
but then extracting exact college names will be a bit diffclt
considering the number of false positives there can be

basically, we can of course iterate thgrough all the resumes and search for keywords 
like 'IIt' or 'Indian Institute of Technology'/ NIT and likewise

that can surely be done
and then in our ranking algo, we can assign weightages based on college
like if IIT increase points by 5, if nIT then 3, else leave it

thats just a easy if else loop
but the main problem would be in correctly identifying 'IIT' or 'NIT' from the resumes
nowadays as we know, lot of certificate courses are there and somoene may just write it 
and the algo picks up 'IIT' but that doesnt mean the candddiate is from IIT right?

But its a good idea. lets see. in the end, we can surely apply this filter!!

okay 
after all the codes are working 
also tell me how power bi works 
with this project 

power bi is easy
just explore and you will learn the basics
uptill a data scientist needs
okay i will show you

okay works 

thanks you so much 
can u save this file so i can read again if i ever need to 

yeag sure

why there's a not a number column 

number column as in?

NaN means not a number right ?

achha i understood. so in the original dataset which was provided to me there was also a 'annotations' column
so that was excess and not needed for the project, so here in the first code, where i am extracting data from json resume
files and storing in the 'resumes' dataframe in pandas, I skipped the anotations column, thats why all the values there 
are showing NaN

got it ty !

did you understand the yoE extraction 

yes

ok good
it's quite difficult though 
or u can say not familiar with that kiind of approach 
we do noob level projects in college so not really exposed to real world problems 

tbh dont worry at all.
College grads arent expected to know all of these
as i said, for your age, just focus on the skills and basics
rest as you work and as you research and collborate with other team members
you will eventually find a solution to these problems not to worry


ok so till now any doubts?

ummm no 

be frank if you have any problems anywhere you can ask me

no not really 
i understand what you are doing 

thats really great
ok so here concludes about 60% of the project. and i am gonna take a break now
lets do the remaining part later? tomorrow if possi?
use the time to understand all that was done till now along with the power BI
like refresh andall

okk?

yeah 
or 
i will try to run the rest of the code by myself 
and if solve error 
if not then u teach me tomorrow 

yeah sure absolutely
no probs
and you trying to run and do stuff yourself will always lead you to learn more quickly and all
so yeah, go on
'if you face any probs, ofc i would be there to help

okay got it 
also besides ranking according to college what more could be added to this project 
and i had my first ADS lecture yesterday advanced data science and we're supposed to build a project
which takes data as input only in 'data'  form and not video, audio and images
so i am thinking about that and if u have any ideas let me know 

yes so the data you would be receiving would be textual or numerical right?
since you mentioned they wont be audio or video

or image yes

yes so the first step would be oviusly to extract data fromthe sources and store it in a common form
in pandas i can show that too you dont worry
like extracting image data and processing in pandas and all

so what exactly is the aim of the project?

just need a project where i am working from a data science perspective and not ML or DL 

so this project is in itself an example which you can try
here we are doing NLP. Text extraction, ranking
and all
we wont be using any ML algo. Jaccard ranking works much bettwe than Clustering
so you can use this project too

yeah but this is basically ur project 
i was thinking if i could build something from scratch 
then i would have 2 data science project 
enough to go ahead with applying for internships 


thats a great approach
okay so
you can try picking up a kaggle dataset which interests you
and do EDA (since you mentioned no ML)
but do EDA from a very statistical focussed perspective
like thats core DS
like i mean to say
use Correlations (example, for that toy dataset remeber there was two columns Income and Age?)

So here one good DS question you can answer is 
'How are Income and Age Correlated arosss various Cities'
\
you can use simple pearsons correlation (check for normality tho) 
across all diffrent cities
and do that

like this was an example,
you can also try using ANOVA, t-tests, Chi-Sqaure tests to
examine the correlations between different datasets 
focus on answering questions as I said
and along with that do of EDA on power BI or using matploltib seaborn, plolty

this al would be enough for like a 'DS Insights Project'

okay understood 

okayidk ANOVA but I know chi-square and t-tests i'll google it 

yes you can easily find it but make sure to know ANOVA its important
the code is really easy tho 
just presnt in the statsmodels package so dont worry about that

okay 

ok bye broo. 

yes thank you very much 

no probss


